---
layout: post
title: Polar morphologies of PTO films on STO substrates
published: true
year: 2020
month: 10
day: 05
summary: CONQUEST is used to study the polarisation textures of lead titanate (PbTiO3, PTO) films
---
Low-dimensional structures comprised of ferroelectric (FE) PbTiO3
(PTO) and quantum paraelectric SrTiO3 (STO) are hosts to complex
polarization textures such as polar waves, flux-closure domains, and
polar skyrmion phases. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations can
provide insight into this order, but are limited by the computational
effort required. Within DFT, the novel multi-site support function
method is used to reduce the solution time for the electronic
groundstate whilst preserving high accuracy. This allows for
large-scale simulations of PTO films on STO substrates with system
sizes >2000 atoms. In the ultrathin limit, the polar wave texture with
cylindrical chiral bubbles emerges as an intermediate phase between
full-flux-closure domains and in-plane polarization. This is driven by
an internal bias field born of the compositionally broken inversion
symmetry in the [001] direction. Manipulation of this built-in field
informs a new principle of design for control over chiral order on the
nanoscale through the careful choice of substrate, surface
termination, or use of overlayers. Antiferrodistortive (AFD) order
locally interacts with these polar textures giving rise to strong
FE/AFD coupling at the PbO terminated surface driving a p(2 √ó ùö≤)
surface reconstruction. This offers another pathway for the local
control of ferroelectricity.

The paper is published in [Adv. Theory Simul. 2020, 2000154](https://doi.org/10.1002/adts.202000154).