---
layout: post
title: Cobalt phosphide nanorod catalysts
published: true
year: 2021
month: 08
day: 03
summary: CONQUEST was used to study the mechanism behind cobalt phosphide nanorod catalysis of carboxylic acid derivatives
---
Traditional non-noble-metal catalysts for the hydrogenation of
carboxylic acid derivatives have suffered from air instability and
inadequate activity, requiring delicate catalyst handling and harsh
reaction conditions. Thus, the development of non-noble-metal-based
catalysts with both air stability and high activity has recently
received much attention. We herein report hydrotalcite-supported
cobalt phosphide nanorods (Co2P NR/HT) acting as an air-stable,
active, and reusable non-noble-metal-based heterogeneous catalyst for
the selective hydrogenation of nitriles to the corresponding primary
amines. Co2P NR/HT exhibits a broad substrate generality, including
sulfur-containing nitriles as well as aromatic, heteroaromatic,
aliphatic, and dinitriles, under mild conditions, typically merely 1
bar of H2 atmosphere. Moreover, the high activity of Co2P NR/HT
enabled nitrile hydrogenation under ammonia-free conditions, affording
primary amines in high yields. The used Co2P NR/HT catalyst was
recoverable and reusable without any significant loss in activity or
selectivity, thus demonstrating the high performance of the Co2P NR/HT
catalyst. Density functional theory (DFT) calculation results indicate
that Co2P NR activates a nitrile at the surface through the back
donation of d-electrons in Co2P NR to Câ‰¡N moiety, facilitating the
nitrile hydrogenation to the primary amine.

The paper is published in [ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 9, 33 (2021)](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c03667).
