---
layout: post
title: Cobalt phosphide nanorod catalysts
published: true
year: 2022
month: 01
day: 22
summary: CONQUEST was used to study the effect of P alloying in Ru nanoparticles
---

The modification of metal nanoparticles (NPs) by incorporating
additional metals is a key technique for developing novel
catalysts. However, the effects of incorporating nonmetals into metal
NPs have not been widely explored, particularly in the field of
organic synthesis. In this study, we demonstrate that phosphorus
(P)-alloying significantly increases the activity of precious metal
NPs for the deoxygenation of sulfoxides into sulfides. In particular,
ruthenium phosphide NPs exhibit an excellent catalytic activity and
high durability against sulfur-poisoning, outperforming conventional
catalysts. Various sulfoxides, including drug intermediates, were
deoxygenated to sulfides with excellent yields. Detailed
investigations into the structure–activity relationship revealed that
P-alloying plays a dual role: it establishes a ligand effect on the
electron transfer from Ru to P, facilitating the production of active
hydrogen species, and has an ensemble effect on the formation of the
Ru–P bond, preventing strong coordination with sulfide products. These
effects combine to increase the catalytic performance of ruthenium
phosphide NPs. These results demonstrate that P-alloying is an
efficient method to improve the metal NP catalysis for diverse organic
synthesis.

The paper is published in [JACS Au 2, 419 (2022)](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.1c00461).
